# Complexity in music perception - is it reflected in listeners' pupil dilation?

Hi! This repository serves as my personal archive for the course project of DM2350 - Human Perception for Information Technology @ [KTH Royal Institute of Technology](https://www.kth.se/en), under the supervision of [Mr. Ekström](https://www.kth.se/profile/axeleks?l=en). It mainly contains the Python-based data cleaning, analysis, and visualization parts of this project. This project was collaboratively completed by Edris Hakimzada <edrish@kth.se>, Helena T. Linder Miñambres <htlm@kth.se>, Izabelle Lundqvist <izalun@kth.se>, and me <yuxuanzh@kth.se>.

This project aimed to investigate if listeners’ pupil dilation reflects the complexity and their enjoyment of the music. We used the complexity subset from the [MUST](https://osf.io/73mne/) set as musical stimuli for our experiment. The experiment was designed using the PsychoPy Python package, and eye tracking data, including pupil diameters and the degree of enjoyment of music, etc., were captured using the Tobii Pro Nano eye tracker. The eye tracker sampled data at a frequency of 60Hz, resulting in over 50,000 data points recorded for each participant. The experimental data was cleaned, analyzed, and visualized using Python. Besides, a two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was applied to test the significance of the effect of the percentage changes of pupil dilation w.r.t. the complexity of the music and the participants' enjoyment of the music.

This project drew a preliminary conclusion that pupil dilation might be induced by the more complex music. And the music that was more liked or more disliked by the participants also seemed to elicit larger pupil dilation. This study should be considered a pilot study with a small sample size and not very rigorous data statistics and analysis. In general, this study provided an initial conclusion on the relationship between music complexity and pupil dilation, and an experimental methodology for future study.
